Sirloin Tip Roast

A while back I picked up a Sirloin Tip Roast and having never cooked one, I started browsing the food websites looking for a recipe and this one kept coming up. So by popular demand I had to give it a try and I was certainly not disappointed! What I got was a wonderfully juicy and well spiced roast that I enjoyed every  bite of. 

Check out the original recipe here 

Sirloin Tip Roast 

Author: BS’ in the Kitchen 

This simple recipe will give you a juicy and flavourful roast everytime. 

Ingredients 

2.5 lb sirloin tip roast 

2 tsp kosher salt or 1 tsp table salt 

1½ tbsp vegetable or olive oil 

1 tsp pepper 

2 tsp dried oregano 

2 tsp dried basil 

1½ tsp crushed red pepper flakes (for extra spice use chili pepper flakes) 

3 cloves of garlic (minced) 

Instructions 

Start off by salting the roast the day before you’re going to be cooking it (this will give a more flavorful, evenly salted roast). Evenly rub the salt over the roast, take plastic wrap and tightly wrap it around the roast, then place on a plate/bowl in your refrigerator. 

The next day, remove the roast about an hour before cooking (allowing it to warm to room temperature). 

Unwrap the meat from the plastic wrap, dry any moisture off with paper towel. 

Place your oven rack in the middle and preheat to 250°F. While the oven is preheating, rub your roast with ½ a tablespoon of oil and minced garlic, then evenly rub with your spice mixture (pepper, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes). 

In a large cast iron pan on medium-high heat with a tablespoon of oil, sear each side of your roast until browned (3-4 minutes per side). 

Once oven is preheated, place the roast on a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet. 

Cook the roast for about an hour and twenty minutes, or until the meat reaches 115°F on your meat thermometer (invest in one of you haven’t yet!). 

Turn your oven off, leaving the roast in for about 30-40 minutes or until it reaches 130°F for medium-rare or 140°F for medium. Leave the door closed this whole time to keep the heat in! I would recommend a meat thermometer like the one I have linked to below. 

After the roast reaches your desired temperature, remove from the oven and allow to rest for 15 minutes. Once the time is up, slice, serve and enjoy! 

I would recommend a meat thermometer like this one, as it allows you to monitor the roast temperature throughout the whole cooking process, without opening your oven door and losing heat! 